>> Kyle Simpson: Let's look at
some other kinds of adapters.
Here's one called flip.
It will sometimes be the case
that you have a function,
let's say you have a binary function,
and it receives an X and a Y.
I don't know what it does,
it doesn't matter.
It's a function that receives an X and
a Y.
And there's a bunch of places
where that works just fine.
But then there's this other place where
you need a function that receives them in
a different order.
You need like yx.
For whatever reason you need to be
able to provide the arguments in
a different order.
That's a new shape adaptation, right?
And if it's a shape adaptation,
then we can make an adapter to do that.
And we call that adapter flip.
Notice what flip does, it takes in a
function, returns back a flipped function,
line 2, it lists arg 1 and
arg 2 and then it transposes
them when it calls the underlying
function on line 3.
And everything else that's passed, if
anything, is passed along untouched, but
flip simply flips the first two.
>> Kyle Simpson: By the way, flip is
the name that is canonically used in most
libraries for exactly this function,
it's called flip.
Same with unary and binary.
Wherever possible,
I'm gonna try to use whatever names
you'll probably see out in the wild.
Not always, but where possible, okay?
So you'll find a flip in there, and
now you know what that does, and
that's like learning about
the plus operation in math.
Because now you know what that does every
time you see flip with an fn passed in,
you know that the thing
that's being passed back has
transposed the two arguments.
The job of becoming a functional
programmer is getting comfortable with
seeing all of these different mathematical
pieces and saying, yep, this is the flip,
and yep, this is the unarian, yep, this
is the binary, and this is the this and
this is the that.
Seeing those and
recognizing those at a glance and
using them just like you use
one plus one equals two.
>> Kyle Simpson: When I make G on line 11,
that is the flip of F.
So when I pass in G 1, 2, 3, 4,
the underlying F actually receives 2,
1, 3, 4, the first two arguments
having been transposed.
A somewhat less common example that
you may find would be reverseArgs.
That's a name that I made up, okay?
Because this isn't one that you're gonna
find in all of your functional programming
libraries, but
it's one that I've often found useful.
So I went and made my own higher order
function utility, because sometimes I have
an n-ary function, three inputs and
I need them all three reverse.
Not just the first two flipped, but I need
all three of them to go in reverse order.
That's happened to me on
a number of occasions.
So what does reverseArgs do?
Exactly what you expect, takes a function
and returns back a new function that
takes the list of arguments, line 2,
and line 3, it reverses them.
>> Kyle Simpson: That's an example of
an adapter that I made that I might use.
Not one you necessarily find but
it's an example, when you find yourself
messing around with the shape of
your functions and they don't fit.
Try to figure out number 1,
can I change the shape of my function
at definition so that it fits better?
If not, can I make an adapter
that changes the shape?
Everywhere that we do this,
we're looking for common patterns.
The functional programmer is looking for
the Lego piece
that looks exactly like the Lego piece
that they have a big old pile of.
I want this thing to look like
a Lego piece that I already have.
I don't want to go invent new
utilities all day every day.
Stop and think about that for a moment,
because that may not be obvious.
Why might I not wanna just invent ad
hoc utilities all over the place?
Because, quite honestly,
it's kind of creative and fun to do so.
I can come up with all kinds of
different shape changing ones.
Why wouldn't that be a good way
of approaching my code base?
And I would suggest to you that maybe why
it's not such a great idea is because
the whole point of being able to glance
at something is the familiarity,
the recognition of it.
Wherever possible if the things that we
are using are the known common things that
every functional programmer for the last
60 something years have used, that's good.
But when a functional programmer comes to
your code base and they see this thing and
they're like, what,
never seen that Lego before.
It's less familiar, so somebody has to
spend more time reasoning about that math.
Where it's possible for
us to do so, we should try to
make it recognizable at a glance.
We should try to use
the standard common ones.
So that means get real familiar with at
least one functional program library and
most of the methods that it provides.
Once you've spent a few hours reading
through the documentation for Ramda, for
example, you're gonna find yourself
looking at a thing, seeing this shape and
this shape and sayng,
I know what that one's called.
I saw that in the Ramda docs.
>> Kyle Simpson: Congratulations,
that's functional programming.
Instead of go invent your own and make
one that isn't consistent and familiar,
try to make it fit in with the existing
patterns wherever possible.
And when you can't, make your own,
document them well, put them in
a standard library that the whole app
uses and use them as much as possible.
That way everybody gets
familiar with them.